Product Telemetry collection document (#1614)
nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric: site/content/overview/product-telemetry.md

---
title: "Product Telemetry"

> description: "Learn how NGINX Gateway Fabric collects product telemetry to identify areas to focus development on improving."

Author: @ADubhlaoich What do you think of this phrasing instead?

weight: 500
toc: true
---

## Overview

NGINX Gateway Fabric collects telemetry by default, which allows its developers to understand what features are most popular with its user base. This data is used to triage development work, prioritizing features and functionality that will positively impact the most people.

> Telemetry data is collected once every 24 hours and sent to a service managed by F5. Personally identifiable information (PII) is **not** collected. The list of data points that are collected can be seen below.

Reviewer: while NGF doesn't send PII, I think it is still important to inform that the data is sent over HTTPS, so it is encrypted and the identity of the F5 service is verified. 
```suggestion
Telemetry data is collected once every 24 hours and sent to a service managed by F5 over HTTPS. Personally identifiable information (PII) is **not** collected. The list of data points that are collected can be seen below.
```

**If you would prefer to not have data collected, you can [opt-out](#opt-out) when installing NGINX Gateway Fabric.**

> ## Collected data

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
## Collected Data
```

Author: Alan suggested lowercasing this, so I'll leave as is.

> 

Reviewer 2: Do we care about also putting `NGINX Gateway Fabric Version` as one of the collected data points?

> - **Kubernetes Platform and Version:** the Kubernetes platform and version that NGINX Gateway Fabric is running on.

Reviewer: nit:
perhaps this can be split into a sublist:
- Kubernetes information...
  - Version...
  - Platform...
  - Platform architecture...

- **Platform Architecture:** the architecture that the Kubernetes environment is running on.
- **Cluster UID:** the UID of the `kube-system` Namespace in the cluster that NGINX Gateway Fabric is running in.
- **Cluster Node Count:** the number of Nodes in the cluster.
- **Deployment UID:** the UID of the NGINX Gateway Fabric Deployment.
- **Deployment Replica Count:** the count of NGINX Gateway Fabric Pods.

> - **Image Build Source:** whether the image was built by Github or locally (values are `gha`, `local`, or `unknown`). The source repository of the images is **not** collected.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Image Build Source:** whether the image was built by GitHub or locally (values are `gha`, `local`, or `unknown`). The source repository of the images is **not** collected.
```

> - **NGINX Modules:** a list of installed NGINX modules.

Reviewer: we can remove it since it was moved out of 1.2

> - **Deployment Flags:** a list of NGINX Gateway Fabric Deployment flags that are specified by a user. The actual values of non-boolean flags are **not** collected; we only record that they are either `default` or `user-defined`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Deployment Flags:** a list of NGINX Gateway Fabric Deployment flags that are specified by a user. The actual values of non-boolean flags are **not** collected; we only record that they are either  `true` or `false` for boolean flags and `default` or `user-defined` for the rest.
```

> - **Count of Gateway Resources:** the total count of resources related to NGINX Gateway Fabric. This includes `GatewayClasses`, `Gateways`, `HTTPRoutes`, `Secrets`, `Services`, and `Endpoints`. The data within these resources is **not** collected.

Reviewer: this we collect both built-in k8s resources and Gateway API resources (and soon our own resources), better to remove Gateway
```suggestion
- **Count of Resources:** the total count of resources relevant for NGINX Gateway Fabric. This includes `GatewayClasses`, `Gateways`, `HTTPRoutes`, `Secrets`, `Services`, and `Endpoints`. The data within these resources is **not** collected.
```

This data is used to identify the following information:

- The flavors of Kubernetes environments that are most popular among our users.
- The number of unique NGINX Gateway Fabric installations.
- The scale of NGINX Gateway Fabric Deployments.
- The scale of Gateway API resources.
- The used features of NGINX Gateway Fabric.

Our goal is to publicly discuss data trends to drive roadmap discussions in our [Community Meeting](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/discussions/1472).

## Opt Out

> To disable the collection of product telemetry, set one of the following options when installing NGINX Gateway Fabric, depending on your installation method:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can disable product telemetry when installing NGINX Gateway Fabric using an option dependent on your installation method:
```

Phrasing: I thought the sentence could be shortened.

---
title: "Product Telemetry"
description: "Learn how and why NGINX Gateway Fabric collects product telemetry data."
weight: 500
toc: true
---

## Overview

> NGINX Gateway Fabric collects telemetry by default, which allows its developers to understand what features are most popular with its user base. This data is used to triage development work, prioritizing features and functionality that will positively impact the most people.

Reviewer 4: nit: shouldn't this be `impact most of the people.` or `impact people positively` ?

Author: No, I think this language makes sense as-is.

Telemetry data is collected once every 24 hours and sent to a service managed by F5 over HTTPS. Personally identifiable information (PII) is **not** collected. The list of data points that are collected can be seen below.

**If you would prefer to not have data collected, you can [opt-out](#opt-out) when installing NGINX Gateway Fabric.**

## Collected data

- **Kubernetes:**

>   - **Platform:** the Kubernetes platform that NGINX Gateway Fabric is running on

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - **Platform:** the Kubernetes platform that NGINX Gateway Fabric is running on.
```
